Welcome, everybody, to JW Broadcasting®.
My cohost is Brother Izak Marais.
Now, his given name is Izak,
but we all call him Saki.
I’m so glad to see you, Saki,
because we’ve got a lot of work today.
But first, you have
quite an interesting background in the truth.
Why don’t you tell us something about it?
Thank you.
I’ll be happy to do so.
I was born in South Africa
in a very small town
called Blyvooruitzicht.
My father was not one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
He initially opposed my mother,
who was a dedicated servant of Jehovah,
but later changed and was very supportive.
My mother served Jehovah faithfully
until her death in 2017.
My grandfather and great-grandfather
on my mother’s side
came into the truth in the early 1920’s
simply by reading a tract.
When I was about ten years old,
I read the book
What Has Religion Done for Mankind?
and I was convinced
that my mother had the truth.
My two brothers and three sisters
also embraced the truth
at an early age.
And to this day,
all of them serve Jehovah faithfully
in various parts of the earth.
Good.
While I was in my final year at school,
I was invited to go to Bethel,
and I started Bethel service
in January 1965 in South Africa.
Bethel was located in Elandsfontein,
not far from Johannesburg.
The Bethel family had only 55 members then.
I had no particular skill,
education, or training when I came to Bethel.
Two older brothers in the small family,
Andrew Jack from Scotland
and Gert Nel from South Africa,
took me under their wing because they knew
I had so much to learn.
They taught me how to apply Bible principles
in the school of life
as outlined at Proverbs 1:1-7.
Andrew Jack taught me how to work
and reminded me always to glorify Jehovah.
Gert Nel, an Afrikaans translator since 1947,
taught me how to reason
on Scriptural principles.
Both of them finished
their earthly course long ago,
but their example
of loyalty still has a deep impact
on the loyal servants of Jehovah
in southern Africa.
I had several assignments over the years
in Translation and in the Printery,
and I worked mostly in cleaning assignments.
In 1976,
I married Jean,
who served as a pioneer in Durban.
She was born in Malawi,
but she grew up in South Africa.
She set a great example for me
by working diligently
at every assignment that she was given.
She always has a good attitude
and works “as to Jehovah and not to men.”
Hmm, very good.
After serving at the South Africa branch
for a few years,
we were transferred
to the United States Bethel in 1981.
We’ve served in Wallkill,
Brooklyn, Patterson,
and are now serving in Warwick.
Well, thanks for sharing.
I know I’ve been built up
by hearing your experience,
and I am sure the friends feel the same way.
Why don’t you give us the highlights
of what we can expect during the program?
I’ll be glad to, David.
As this system nears its end,
we may at times feel trapped and helpless.
How can we be sure
that Jehovah is still helping us?
Many years ago,
Karen found joy and fulfillment
with her spiritual family.
But her life serving Jehovah
hasn’t been easy.
We’ll see how she’s doing in the next episode
of the series Where Are They Now?
Have you ever wished that you could have
more conversations in the ministry?
Our latest episode
of Iron Sharpens Iron
provides suggestions for doing so.
This is the April 2024 edition
of JW Broadcasting!
An outstanding fact
is recorded at Isaiah 55:10, 11:
“For just as the rain and the snow
pour down from heaven
“and do not return there
until they saturate the earth,
“making it produce and sprout,
“giving seed to the sower
and bread to the eater,
“[now notice this]
“so my word [my word]
“that goes out of my mouth will be.
“It will not return to me without results,
“but it will certainly accomplish
whatever is my delight.”
The word of God
is the statement of his purpose.
Now, it can be delivered orally
or in writing.
We call the Bible God’s written Word,
and rightly so.
But long before writing was invented,
Jehovah expressed his purpose in words.
“And God said: ‘Let there be light.’
Then there was light.”
Through Isaiah, Jehovah is telling us
that he will always accomplish his purpose.
So no matter how powerful fighters
against that purpose seem to be,
they will always lose in the end.
Remembering that will help us when we’re
faced with opposers who seem unbeatable.
So I thought we might consider some
Bible examples that illustrate the point.
Take the days of King Saul, for example.
Now, Jehovah sent Samuel
to anoint the next king of Israel.
And as recorded at 1 Samuel 16:1,
God said to Samuel:
“I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite,
“because I have selected
from among his sons
a king for myself.”
Saul’s replacement turned out to be David.
He was Jehovah’s choice.
At some point, Saul himself understood that.
In fact, according to 1 Samuel 23:17,
his son Jonathan said to David:
“You will be king over Israel, . . .
and my father Saul also knows that.”
Confirming this, on one occasion
Saul said to David:
“I know that you will surely rule as king.”
In spite of it all, Saul tried to kill David.
And he had the support of a powerful army.
Saul himself was apparently a very strong man.
Still, it was God’s will
for David to become king,
and Saul knew it.
So we ask: Why did Saul keep on fighting?
And whom was he fighting, really?
Not just David.
He was fighting against God.
Saul was setting himself up for failure.
No doubt Satan was egging Saul on.
If Satan could cause
just one of Jehovah’s promises to fail—
But in the end, the word of God prevailed.
David became king.
Well, who would replace David
when the time came?
That was also Jehovah’s decision to make,
and he made it.
According to 1 Chronicles 22:9, 10,
Jehovah told David:
“Look! You will have a son . . .
“Solomon will be his name
“and . . . I will firmly establish the throne
of his kingship over Israel forever.”
So Solomon would be the next king of Israel.
Who could prevent that from happening?
David’s son Adonijah tried and failed.
Why?
As quoted at 1 Kings 2:15, he later admitted:
“The kingship eluded me
and became my brother’s,
for it was from Jehovah that it became his.”
If Adonijah thought
he could outmaneuver Jehovah,
he was sadly mistaken.
Jehovah promised the Israelites
that he would give them
the land of Canaan as an inheritance.
The Canaanites had other ideas.
They had heard of Jehovah’s powerful works
in Egypt,
but they fought against him anyway.
They learned.
They learned at their cost
that fighters against God always lose.
Now, if you were asked to name
some prominent fighters
against God in Jesus’ day,
you might think of King Herod the Great,
the Jewish High Priest Caiaphas,
and maybe the Roman Governor Pontius Pilate.
Let’s talk about them.
First, Herod the Great.
Let’s read Matthew 2:1, 2.
Now, astrologers visit King Herod,
and they ask a strange question.
We read:
“After Jesus had been born
in Bethlehem of Judea
“in the days of Herod the king, look!
“astrologers from the East
came to Jerusalem,
“saying:
‘Where is the one born king of the Jews?
“‘[king of the Jews?]
“‘For we saw his star
when we were in the East,
and we have come to do obeisance to him.’”
Did you notice something strange here?
No angel had spoken to those astrologers,
yet when the men saw a light in heaven,
they concluded that it signaled
the birth of the “king of the Jews.”
That’s a stretch!
Who do you suppose
put that idea in their head?
And who do you suppose
gave them the bright idea
to ask the present king of Israel
about his future rival?
That has Satan the Devil written all over it,
doesn’t it?
Now notice verses 3 and 4:
“At hearing this, King Herod was agitated,
“and all Jerusalem with him.
“On gathering together all the chief priests
and scribes of the people,
“he inquired of them where
the Christ was to be born.”
Interesting!
Herod doesn’t just ask where
the future “king of the Jews” will be born;
he asks “where the Christ [will] be born.”
Now, as a Jewish proselyte,
he’s supposed to be waiting for the Christ,
the Messiah.
Yet, now that the Messiah has come,
Herod wants to kill him.
Herod is fighting against God.
Does he win?
No.
Jesus escapes his clutches.
And a few months later, Herod himself dies.
Few mourn his death.
In Jesus’ day, the Jewish high priests
were appointed and removed by the Romans.
Now, High Priest Caiaphas
was a skilled politician.
He knew how to please the Romans.
And because of that, he hung on to his job
a lot longer than many others.
And he had a powerful supporter,
Pontius Pilate.
With his connections,
Caiaphas seemed untouchable.
Pilate himself was very well-connected.
He had a good friend in high places in Rome:
Lucius Sejanus.
Now, maybe you’ve never heard
of Sejanus before,
but he was probably the most powerful man
in the Roman Empire.
The emperor left most of the major decisions
to Sejanus.
Now, he made many enemies,
but they were powerless against him
until—until—the fall of 31 C.E.
At that time,
Sejanus got on the wrong side of the emperor
and was put to death.
After that,
the emperor commanded
that anyone who had been friends
with Sejanus was to be executed.
How do you think Pilate felt?
He must have been a nervous wreck!
As we said, he and Sejanus
had been very close.
And now, a year and a half
after Sejanus was executed,
what do you suppose Pilate was thinking
when the Jewish rulers cried out,
‘If you release Jesus,
you are no friend of Caesar’?
Some scholars believe that this was a factor
in Pilate’s decision
to order Jesus’ execution
—to protect his own job.
Did he protect it?
No.
Pilate wasn’t immediately
struck by lightning.
But less than four years
after he sentenced Jesus to death,
he got into big trouble
and was recalled to Rome.
With no powerful friend to defend him,
Pilate was removed as Roman governor.
What happened next isn’t clear.
Some say Pilate committed suicide.
Others say he was banished.
Whatever happened, it wasn’t good.
When Pilate lost his job,
Caiaphas lost his protector
and soon he was removed as high priest.
Thus, two fighters against God,
Pilate and Caiaphas, were dispatched
soon after they committed
their greatest crime.
We certainly don’t want to be fighters
against Jehovah God.
How can we cooperate with his purpose today?
Consider this scenario:
A brother offends you,
says something thoughtless.
You’re hurt.
Now, how does Jehovah view that person?
He’s God’s friend.
Jehovah loves his friends.
He wants you to love them too.
Now, what’s God’s purpose
for the brother who offended you?
He wants him to enjoy life forever.
Now, how can you
work along with Jehovah’s purpose?
If you can just overlook the offense,
Jehovah will appreciate that.
But if you can’t overlook it,
Jehovah would want you to approach
the person in a kind, respectful way.
You might say something like this:
“Maybe I’m being too sensitive,
“but I was hurt
by what you said the other day.
“Now, I know you didn’t mean to hurt me,
but I thought I’d let you know how I felt.”
If the person responds favorably
and unity is restored,
can you imagine how pleased Jehovah will be?
In Matthew chapter 18, Jesus gave
the illustration of the lost sheep.
A man had 100 sheep.
One got lost.
The shepherd left the 99 in the field
and went to great lengths
to find the sheep that had strayed
and bring it back to the fold.
Is it a coincidence
that right after telling that story,
Jesus outlined three steps we should follow
when someone has sinned seriously
against us?
At Matthew 18:15,
Jesus tells us what our goal should be
when we follow those steps.
Let’s read that:
“Moreover, if your brother commits a sin,
“go and reveal his fault
between you and him alone.
“If he listens to you, [notice]
you have gained your brother.”
The brother who sinned against us
may be like that lost sheep.
What should be our goal?
To gain our brother, not to expose him,
not to get revenge, not to prove him wrong,
not to shame him, but to get him back.
Like that loving shepherd,
we are willing to go
to great lengths to bring
that erring brother back to the fold.
Of course, if the brother
is an unrepentant sinner,
the elders will follow the third step
outlined by Jesus
and he’ll be removed from the congregation.
How else can we work along
with Jehovah’s purpose?
We can do that by being involved
in the preaching work.
The word has gone out:
“This good news of the Kingdom
[must] be preached
in all the inhabited earth.”
Many have tried
to prevent that from happening.
In the early 20th century,
a few prominent brothers opposed
the organization’s efforts
to get everyone involved
in the preaching work.
Those dignitaries were quite happy
to get all dressed up
and give public talks to large audiences,
but they refused to “lower themselves”
to go from house to house.
They were fighting against God,
and the angels soon sifted them out.
Most of them were never heard of again.
Even in countries
where there’s a measure of religious freedom,
fighters against God have tried to prevent us
from carrying out our commission.
“You need a permit to go from house to house.
“You can’t offer magazines on the street.
You people are a dangerous sect.”
They’ve even enacted laws
directed at stopping our work.
Unless they change their ways,
those lawmakers
are going to be in big trouble.
The word has gone out: “As you go, preach.”
That great work will be accomplished,
with their support or in spite of them.
Well, we mentioned, fighters against God
sometimes seem to get away
with their acts of rebellion.
But they’re on a slippery slope.
I can’t express it better than David did
at Psalm 37:1, 2:
“Do not be upset because of evil men
“or envious of wrongdoers.
“They will quickly wither like grass
and shrivel like green new grass.”
So when you hear about powerful opposers
who seem to be untouchable,
remember what we’ve discussed.
These men may seem to prosper for a while,
but since they’re fighting against God,
they’re more to be pitied than to be feared.
They’re on the wrong side.
They are fighting a losing battle.
Thank you, Brother Splane,
for your encouraging discussion,
“Fighters Against God Always Lose.”
How reassuring that is to all of us!
Trusting Jehovah when faced with one problem
after another is not easy,
but it can refine us.
Please listen as Sister Sigrid Detoffolli
explains how she learned this lesson.
World War II was going on,
getting worse and worse.
We got the evacuation notice,
and we had to leave.
People do terrible things to people.
We were afraid.
No matter where you looked,
there were worldly possessions,
material things.
And everybody threw more things,
and nobody picked anything up.
What they carried were things
that would save their life at the moment,
something to eat.
I really didn’t know how
I would spend my life at that time, right?
But I knew
that I would not use it to get rich,
to work and work, for what?
I wasn’t dedicated to Jehovah at that time.
Even so, I knew who Jehovah was,
and we prayed to him,
and I’m sure he helped us.
In 1946, we found out
my father was alive and my sister was alive.
We were very privileged
to be united as a family.
And at that time, my father was near Berlin.
And so we started all over again.
My father found the book The Harp of God
and started to study the Bible
with my sister and with myself.
And little by little,
he started a congregation at our house.
Now, coming to know Jehovah
and learning about the Paradise,
I wanted to tell people about it.
I knew I would have a purpose in life.
I heard about Gilead, and I said: “Oh, boy!
That’s where I want to go.
I want to be a missionary
and tell the people about the Paradise.”
The official ban on the Witnesses
in the Eastern zone of Germany
came in 1950, but months before,
we were already being observed.
My father got literature
for the congregation.
Many times he would send me
on a bicycle
through the forest with the literature.
So it’s interesting
when you’re in that situation
—you might go to prison—
you just don’t worry about it.
You trust in Jehovah, and you just go ahead.
And that’s what our family did.
Then my father went to the branch,
and they told him: “Max,” they said,
there’s an assembly in Berlin,
“and if you come, don’t bring a Bible;
don’t bring a songbook; bring nothing.”
So when our father
came back from that meeting,
he told us and said, “Well, if we go,
it looks like we can’t come back.”
So I said, “I’m going!”
And my mother said, “I’m going!”
So we all made up our minds
that we would go.
That meant we would get prepared
to leave everything again, right?
So I just put one dress
on top of the other,
took the bicycle, and off we went.
Shortly after we left, a police car came,
and they looked for us.
It was a special arrangement
and privilege to be
at a convention in Berlin.
So we all thanked Jehovah that we were there
to listen to and be strengthened
by the spiritual food.
And after the convention,
we were recognized as refugees
and got out on a plane to West Germany.
My father said:
“Well, now, here for the second time,
“we lost all the material things
we had in Germany.
So we better immigrate to the United States,”
where my sister was
and we all would be together.
And I said, “Good, I’ll get close to Gilead!”
And then I was privileged
to attend the 29th class of Gilead.
And my assignment was in Brazil,
and it was like paradise.
And there I met my husband,
who was my circuit overseer.
And so I was privileged to travel with him.
That was a great, great blessing.
No money can pay for the blessings I have.
Life is the most important thing there is
because no matter how much you have,
you can’t prolong your life.
And then learning about Jehovah,
who gave his Son
to save us from all these terrible things,
why wouldn’t you use your life to serve him?
Trust in Jehovah,
and do what you can do
to serve him from your heart.
He will never leave you.
Sister Detoffolli’s story
is not unlike what many of our brothers
are going through right now.
The following dramatization
is based on the real-life experiences
of some of our brothers.
It’s been three days
since the bombs started to fall.
When the fighting got closer, we hid,
but I’m not sure
how much longer we can stay here.
Some in the congregation
plan to leave the country.
Mother says we’ll try too
when the shelling calms down.
But it feels like it may never stop.
Jehovah, can you still see us?
Luda, you can finish this.
We have a little more.
Always writing like your father.
Thank you, Grandma.
I know you’re worried
about our brothers and sisters.
Do you remember the day’s text?
“No weapon formed against you
will have any success.”
That’s right.
When we were under ban,
Satan did everything
to break our faith for decades,
but he couldn’t stop us preaching.
Do you know why?
No.
Nothing can take Jehovah’s love
away from his people.
They tried,
but we just drew closer to him.
Jehovah cared for us then,
and he still does.
Even if we lose our lives,
that weapon will have no success
because of the resurrection.
Luda!
It’s time.
We have to go.
Now!
It took forever to get to the station.
One by one, trains left the city.
There were so many people—so much fear.
Many of the brothers
were arrested because they would not fight,
but a few were with us.
The soldier will need to see your IDs.
Let’s make a line.
Hours felt like days.
I didn’t know if we would get on.
Send the rest back to the shelter.
Confirmed.
There’s no more room!
You—from you back.
To the shelter.
Now!
Don’t worry;
we can try again tomorrow.
This way, please.
Luda, Jehovah will care for us.
This is just a delay, not a defeat.
Come, please.
I’ll have to go check on the others,
but I’ll text you the moment we know more.
What are you thinking about?
I wish Papa were here with us.
I know you do.
Your father knew you so well.
I miss him too.
When it hurts,
I think of Jehovah’s special promise
to care for us.
Do you remember?
Yes, um,
Psalm 68:5, “a father of the fatherless.”
I want to trust him.
You can.
The trains have stopped.
Shelling destroyed some of the tracks.
What?
Are we trapped?
Don’t worry, dear.
Our brothers know we are here.
Jehovah won’t forget us.
Let’s pray.
Sofiya!
Luda!
Anna!
We’re here.
We’re over here.
I’m sorry it took so long.
Did you hear about the trains?
Don’t worry;
there is good news.
We couldn’t leave,
but brothers and sisters
in a safe part of the city
opened their homes to us.
I learned that a war can’t stop Jehovah.
He’ll always find a way
to care for his people.
Nothing can take Jehovah’s love away.
I don’t know where he will guide us,
but I trust him.
Luda trusted in Jehovah
and was not overreached
by fear or discouragement.
What does it mean to be overreached?
Listen carefully as Brother Harold Corkern
explains in this Morning Worship program.
The expression used in our day’s text,
the word used, is “overreached.”
And what comes to mind when we hear
of someone that has been overreached?
Well, to “overreach” means to “get better of,
“or to get the better
“of especially by deceit or trickery,
to outwit, to overtake, to overpower.”
And so we have to be
very careful at all times
because our enemy, the Devil,
is out to trick us, deceive us,
overtake us on any occasion possible.
And he has quite a variety of tactics,
doesn’t he?
In fact, the Bible at Ephesians 6:11
describes these
as “the crafty acts of the Devil.”
Now, the context of today’s text
(in the background)
helps us to illustrate
just two of those tactics.
We invite you to open your Bibles
to 2 Corinthians chapter 2.
And in Paul’s first letter
to the Corinthians,
the congregation had been affected by a man
who had been overreached by Satan
by being involved
in very gross sexual immorality.
But on top of his being overreached,
the congregation was tolerating it.
And so,
what did Paul tell them in very clear terms?
“You must hand such a man over to Satan.”
“Remove the wicked person
from among yourselves.”
Well, the congregation responded,
and eventually this very man
who had been living
such an immoral life really repented.
And now permissiveness
and tolerating badness
was no longer the issue.
What was the issue?
The matter of forgiving such a man.
And in 2 Corinthians chapter 2,
we read verse 6:
“This rebuke given by the majority
is sufficient for such a man;
“now you should instead
kindly forgive and comfort him,
so that he may not be overwhelmed
by excessive sadness.”
And who was behind that ploy
of excessive sadness?
Verse 11: “So that we
may not be overreached by Satan,
for we are not ignorant of his designs.”
So the Devil will use whatever
with the temptation of sexual immorality:
either being overly permissive
or being harsh, unforgiving,
and lacking mercy.
Both of those tactics can be very effective
in taking Jehovah’s people
away from their heavenly Father.
But on this matter of temptations,
when it comes to sexual immorality,
let’s just briefly talk about another tactic
that the Devil uses.
He can convince someone that they can taste
or toy with things
that might be unclean or are unclean
but that there will be no lasting harm
or no serious consequences to that.
They may even touch something unclean,
and since nothing
apparently bad has happened,
they conclude that it’s OK.
But such a person is forgetting
the unchangeable law of Jehovah,
as recorded at Galatians 6:7:
“Whatever a [man] is sowing,
this he will also reap.”
Now, just to illustrate that
(how the Devil can use bait
and convince somebody that they’re
not really in any kind of trouble
and yet he will catch them),
we’re going to tell you an account
that goes back many years.
There was a group of young men
at a freshwater lake, and they were fishing.
And they could look down into this lake,
and they could see these big bass
—beautiful fish.
And they tried all sorts of lures;
they tried worms on hooks, artificial lures.
Those big fish would not bite.
But then an older gentleman came along,
and he said,
“Give me one of your worms.”
And he took the worm without the hook,
and he threw it out in the vicinity
of where these big bass were.
And a bass came and he took the worm.
He said,
“Throw another one without the hook.”
He threw it; the bass took it.
And now he said,
“Put the worm on the hook and cast.”
The fish was caught.
What is the lesson?
The Devil will give us bait sometimes,
and it appears that it’s very pleasurable.
“There’s nothing wrong here.
It’s harmless.”
But with the Devil, there is always the hook
—always the hook—
that can cause spiritual, emotional, mental,
and even physical harm.
It can literally cost us our life
if we get tricked into thinking
that uncleanness will not hurt us.
Now, besides pleasure
and the temptations that go with that,
the Devil will also use pain and suffering.
For example, in the experience of Job,
he lost his material possessions,
he lost his children, he got very ill.
That caused all sorts
of physical and emotional pain,
not pleasure.
And with all that he was going through,
then his so-called friends
came to comfort him.
And they accused him of all sorts
of bad attitudes and actions.
And they even put doubts in Job’s mind
—or tried to—
that Jehovah couldn’t be pleased anyway.
Well, that was one of the toughest tests
that he faced
from his friends
and from the words that they said.
Well, commenting on this,
the August 15, 2002, Watchtower
said this about how a great test
can come from our fellow worshippers.
It says this:
“Satan still makes use of misguided counsel
“or thoughtless remarks
from friends and fellow believers.
“Discouragement from within the congregation
“can undermine our morale more easily
than persecution from without.”
And then this article went on to explain
that there was a brother serving as an elder,
but he had seen active combat in the army.
He’d been through terrible things.
But when he faced criticism
and thoughtless remarks
and was hurt by his fellow workers
in the congregation,
what did he say about those tests
within the congregation?
He said: “It’s the hardest thing
I have ever been through [in my life].”
So, what can the Devil use?
Our own brothers can say
or do things sometimes,
and the Devil will play
on that and amplify that
and cause one to stop serving Jehovah.
Well, obviously there are
a variety of “crafty acts,”
and we’ve only covered
just a couple of them this morning.
But what do we do to protect ourselves?
James 4:7 says:
“Therefore, subject yourselves to God;
but oppose the Devil.”
And when we do that,
we always must remember
the model prayer given by Jesus,
where he said:
“Deliver us from the wicked one.”
Now, why is that so important?
Well, we bear Jehovah’s name.
And he is very anxious to protect his name,
and he loves us very much.
He’s our Father.
And like any loving father,
if he saw one of his faithful sons
going through a terrible trial by someone
that was trying to kill him,
that father would respond quickly,
wouldn’t he?
Well, how does Jehovah feel about us?
Well, let’s open our Bibles
to the book of Malachi
to just reemphasize
how much Jehovah cares for us
and why he would respond so quickly
to our cries for help to deliver us
from “the wicked one.”
At Malachi 3:17, it says:
“‘And they will be mine,’
says Jehovah of armies,
“‘in the day when I produce
a special property.
“‘I will show them compassion,
“‘just as a man shows compassion
to his son who serves him.’”
Well, that’s a warm arrangement there,
isn’t it?
And Jehovah cares for us.
Other Bible translations,
when they talk about “special property,”
use these expressions: “my very own,”
“my most prized possession,” “my jewels.”
Jehovah loves us.
And Jehovah will only allow
the Devil to go so far
in testing us, only according
to what Jehovah wills at the moment.
For example,
remember in the case of Job,
when fire came down from heaven
and consumed Job’s flock of sheep
and even some of his servants?
The Devil caused that fire,
and Jehovah allowed it.
But later in 1 Kings chapter 18
at the fire test at Mount Carmel
when there were two bulls,
the idea was to figure out
who the true God is—Jehovah or Baal.
And those Baal worshippers
went from morning to night
crying out to their false god
and not one flicker of flame
could be produced.
Jehovah would not allow the Devil
to even burn up one bull
in contrast to what he had done
with all those many sheep.
Jehovah is in control.
And what Jehovah allows today—
We can be sure that whatever
He allows the Devil to do
to cause us emotional pain, physical pain,
to even persecute us,
perhaps even kill some of us
—by means of his Son, Christ Jesus,
Jehovah has made a way “to break up
the works of the Devil” completely.
So whatever happens,
when we stay loyal to Jehovah
and we are on guard
against the crafty acts of the Devil,
we will not be overreached.
No permanent harm
can come to Jehovah’s people
by this deceitful, treacherous enemy.
May all of us continue to stay on the alert,
be mindful of the Devil’s tactics,
and beg Jehovah to deliver us,
and then we can be confident that our loving,
heavenly Father will never abandon us.
Satan may even use family members
who mean well
to discourage us from serving Jehovah.
If this is your situation,
you will find the following episode
of Where Are They Now?
especially strengthening.
My name is Karen Malone,
and I was born in Iowa,
but I was raised all over
because my dad was in the military.
When I think about Karen and how
she came into the truth, it touches my heart
because she had no family in the truth.
In fact, they didn’t support her at all.
Once I knew who Jehovah was,
I made it a goal in my life
that I just wanted to serve him forever,
and I wanted to be happy doing it.
I met Karen at Bethel.
She was special pioneering in Tennessee,
and I was serving at Bethel,
and she came through on tour.
A year later or so, we got married.
And then nine months later,
we went back to Bethel.
Well, in 1980 we left Bethel.
We had our daughter that year.
It changed things,
but you just give your energy
and your love and your time
to whatever assignment Jehovah gives you.
She would take the kids out with her
in the field ministry during the week,
and she always made it fun.
That was one of the things
that was important to her,
that when the kids
went in the field ministry,
they enjoyed it.
It’s just a matter of blooming
where you’re planted, wherever you’re at.
We didn’t ever walk into a congregation
and expect people to come up to us.
We’d be proactive in meeting people
and trying to become a part
of wherever we were put
so that it could become our home.
Just loving them
—if they needed soup, we’d make soup.
If they needed a meal,
if they needed their house cleaned,
if they needed a babysitter,
if there was a need,
we wanted to help them with it.
There are so many challenges in life
that try to rob us of our peace.
And it’s our choice if we let them.
So we don’t let them.
We were invited back to Bethel in 2007,
and we’ve been there since.
I came into a beautiful department,
the Health Care Department,
with people who were experts at it.
To bloom where I was planted when I was put
in front of these two computer screens
took a lot of prayer.
And I remember
literally going to the bathroom
and crying and telling Jehovah:
“Look, I know you can part the Red Sea.
You’re going to have to get this information
from here to here”
—because I was a blank page.
And the beautiful thing is
that two precious sisters, Bonnie and Zulma,
whom I still treasure and work with,
helped me.
And they taught me.
You know that expression,
“If you can’t change your circumstance,
change your attitude.”
So I really made it a matter of prayer
and, again, I had wonderful helpers
who taught me and helped me to learn.
When I first learned the truth, I realized
that there are scriptures that teach us
the truth and then there are scriptures
that will keep us in the truth.
And I call those my “heart scriptures.”
And those are my go-to scriptures.
When things were rough,
when I was dealing with things,
when something
was trying to rob me of my joy,
I’d refer to those “heart scriptures”
and they would reinforce the conviction:
“Oh, no, you’re not going to win, Satan.”
My favorite scripture
that I think epitomizes that
is Proverbs 27:11, which we all know,
where it says:
“Be wise, my son,
and make my heart rejoice,
so that I can make a reply
to him who taunts me.”
That’s what it’s all about.
It’s about Jehovah’s name
and making a reply to the Devil.
His sovereignty is what’s important.
It’s not about us.
We really love being parents
and loved pioneering together.
We’ve loved every gift that we’ve been given.
I tell my kids:
“Each day we live is a gift from God.
How we live it is our gift to him.”
The truth is only hard if we fight it.
If we listen to Jehovah,
if we do what we’re asked,
the blessings will catch up with us.
The best day we could have here
—and we’ve all had wonderful days—
is nothing in comparison
to the first day in the new world.
It’s such an amazing thought
to think that all we have to do
is make good choices now
and then we’re going to be there!
How delighted we are
that Karen not only found
a supportive spiritual family
but now contributes so much to it!
Our spiritual family can bring us
much joy and peace,
as we’ll see in this month’s music video.
It’s hard to face this life
with all we see,
To not focus on
the uncertainty.
Anxious thoughts at times
we all may feel,
But when we pray,
his promise is real.
He gives us peace
like a river—
Peace like a cool, gentle rain—
The hope to carry on,
The power to stand strong
and know we’re not on our own.
And his peace will flow forever,
yes, peace like a river.
So pour out your heart to him
in prayer.
Jehovah’s listening;
he’s always there
To comfort us
and guard our heart and mind.
Unfailing love from him
we find.
He gives us peace
like a river—
Peace like a cool, gentle rain—
The hope to carry on,
The power to stand strong
and know we’re not on our own.
And his peace will flow forever,
yes, peace like a river.
He gives us peace
like a river—
Peace like a cool, gentle rain—
The hope to carry on,
The power to stand strong
and know we’re not on our own.
And his peace will flow forever,
yes, peace like a river.
What do you do in the ministry
when it seems like no one is home?
As we’ll see in this next episode
of Iron Sharpens Iron,
there may still be many opportunities
all around us to give a witness.
Hello, I am Victor Anibaba,
and this is “Iron Sharpens Iron.”
Now, so far in our series,
we’ve discussed how we can become
more effective at our ministry
in a number of different ways,
such as by starting conversations,
asking questions,
and getting better at return visits.
But these techniques only work
if we actually find people to talk to,
and sometimes
that can be our greatest challenge.
Have you ever had days like this
in the ministry
when it seemed
that there was just no one to talk to?
If so, you’ll be pleased to know
that our literature is full of tips
that can help us
contact more people in our territory.
In this episode,
we will consider three
that have proved to be very effective.
Tip number one: Be observant.
There may actually be more opportunities
for us to contact people
if we actually know where to look.
Take for example our brothers and sisters
who we were just watching.
Now, it is true
that there was no one at home,
but does that mean
there was no one to talk to?
Well, let’s see.
Hey!
Hi.
Your dog is so cute.
What’s its name?
Darleen.
And just like that,
a conversation is underway.
Now, how about our couple
getting back into their car?
By being observant,
they too were able to give a witness.
The more observant we are,
the more opportunities we may find.
The key is
to remain focused on our objective,
which is to give a witness.
And that can happen in between doors
just as easily
as it could happen at the doors.
So how about our tip number two?
It is this: Be prepared.
How often have you encountered someone
in your territory
who doesn’t speak your language?
You know, growing up in London,
this used to happen all the time.
But these days,
it’s not just big cities
where we find this mixture
of culture and languages.
The whole world
is becoming so much more cosmopolitan.
So, what can we do to be prepared?
Well, we don’t have the gift of tongues
like the first-century Christians did
at Pentecost,
but we do have the gift
of JW Language®.
Now with this app,
you can learn a simple presentation
in dozens of different languages.
Let’s take a look.
It’s designed in a very easy-to-use manner.
First,
set the primary language
to the one you speak
and the target language
to the one you want to learn.
Then, under Preaching Skills,
choose Greetings and Introductions
to learn how to say a simple, “hello.”
And “I am pleased to meet you.”
Dobryi den’.
Pryyemno poznayomytys’a.
I think I’ve made a mess of that.
I best try it again.
Dobryi den’.
Pryyemno poznayomytys’a.
Well, I still need to work on my accent,
but I think you get the idea.
With a little practice,
you can ask simple questions
and even introduce and explain a scripture.
It really works.
Let’s look at an example.
Hi there,
we are making brief visits on our neighbors.
No, no, no speak English.
Oh, Arabic?
What a great way to give a witness
to even more in our territory!
Now, if mastering a whole presentation
in another language
seems a bit overwhelming,
then here’s a simple suggestion:
Just learn a greeting.
It’s only a few words,
but don’t underestimate the power
of greeting someone in their native tongue
and with a warm smile.
It can certainly open up doors,
and it could also pave the way
for you to call back
with someone who does speak their language.
And that brings us on to our third tip:
Be diligent and follow up,
which, first of all,
means trying to contact
all those who weren’t home initially,
either on a different day
or at a different time.
And if you can’t find them in that way,
then don’t overlook
letter writing and telephone witnessing.
These methods proved very effective
during the pandemic,
and even now they can still help us
to reach those we can’t find at home.
Regardless of what way
we have contacted someone,
please be sure not to forget them,
but return promptly
to follow up on any interest
that you have found.
You know, reaching everyone in our territory
is definitely a challenge.
But the tips we’ve discussed here today
—(1) being observant,
(2) being prepared,
and (3) being diligent
as we follow up on interest that we find—
can help all of us
fully accomplish our ministry.
If we do that,
we’ll be imitating Jesus,
who wanted to give everyone
an opportunity to come to know Jehovah.
What excellent suggestions for the ministry!
I look forward to using them
during our upcoming
regional convention campaign.
Would you like to have a look at what
to expect
from this year’s convention program?
Good news is needed now more than ever.
The good news we need
is not of human origin.
It originates with the Giver of real hope,
Jehovah God,
and it centers on his Son,
Jesus Christ.
What is this good news?
Can we trust it?
And can it help people right now?
This year’s “Declare the Good News!”
Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses
will bolster confidence in God and his Son.
The good news of God’s Kingdom
will help you to cope with life now
and prepare you for eternal life
in the future.
Now, that is good news!
We have a lot to look forward to
at this year’s convention.
And what a faith-strengthening program
we’ve just enjoyed!
We learned that anyone who fights against God
is on the losing side of the battle.
We show our desire to work with God
by keeping peace in the congregation
and by giving our all in the preaching work.
In the dramatization,
young Luda learned that Jehovah
never abandons
his loyal ones.
And our music video
beautifully illustrated that peace
and strength belong
to those who rely on Jehovah.
We have one more treat in store for you.
We’re happy to announce a new series
for our young people,
called Learn From Jehovah’s Friends.
These short, animated videos
will teach those
who are starting to read on their own
about persons in the Bible who loved Jehovah.
Look for it on JW Broadcasting soon.
Our video postcard this month
comes from a place known
as the Land of Incorruptible People.
Where might that be?
The country’s name
combines two words: “integrity”
in the Moore language and “homeland”
in the Jula language.
It’s Burkina Faso,
a landlocked country in West Africa.
The first Kingdom publisher
arrived in Burkina Faso
from Ghana in 1959.
In 1972,
the first of many
intrepid missionaries arrived.
And just two years later,
congregations were formed in the capital,
Ouagadougou, and in Bobo-Dioulasso,
in the west of the country.
Daytime temperatures average
around 30 degrees Celsius,
or 86 degrees Fahrenheit,
and may be much warmer
during the peak of the dry season.
Often, a host will welcome visitors
with a drink of water.
A common saying in the Moore language
is “Sãan la koom,”
which literally means “The guest is water.”
Jehovah’s people are working hard
to take life-giving waters of Bible truth
to the nearly 23 million people
scattered in villages
through the savanna and forest.
In March 2023,
Burkina Faso reached a new peak
of 684 auxiliary pioneers.
Today, there are over 2,000 publishers
in Burkina Faso.
This is no small feat,
owing to the travel difficulties
between villages
and the 66 indigenous languages
spoken throughout the country.
Two remote translation offices
produce literature
for the Moore and Jula languages.
And in 2023,
our brothers were overjoyed
to receive the complete
New World Translation  in the Moore language.
The brothers and sisters
from the Kamboincé Moore
and Tampouy Moore congregations
send their love and affection
to the worldwide brotherhood!
We hope you enjoyed our monthly program.
And I want to thank you, Saki,
for all your help.
It was really appreciated.
You’re welcome.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.